# 1. Broken Access Control

Access control models:

* MAC (Mandatory Access Control)
  * Resources such as network sockets, apps, or files are assigned a label such as "confidential"
  * Users or devices or service accounts that are assigned a clearance level that allows access to these labeled resources.
* DAC (Discretionary Access Control)
  * DACL (List) - we can add users and groups and set permissions to specific files and folders at the NTFS file system level.
* ABAC (Attribute-based Access Control)

### Access control:

* Includes authentication and authorization policies
* Authorization occurs after successful authentication
* Determines resource permissions
* Access control flaws can allow unauthorized resource access &#x20;

### Forced URL browsing

* Hidden URLs allow access to sensitive data without authentication
* Attackers can use enumeration techniques to discover hidden URLs
* Attackers might guess that www.site.com/configuration contains site config files even though there is no link to this URL

### Client-side input validation

* Local code checks data before being submitted to the web server
* Local code might be vulnerable to tampering; server-side validation should always be used

### HTTP Methods

Request methods

Degine an action to be run by an HTTP web server

#### HTTP HEAD Method

* **HTTP GET Method** - Get data from HTTP server
* **HTTP POST Method** - Send HTML form data to HTTP server
* **HTTP PUT Method** - Change or to modify a server-side resource (Uploads a new resource or updates an existing resource)
* **HTTP DELETE Method** - Remove or delete a server-side resource
* **HTTP CONNECT Method** - Establish tunnel to HTTP web server, normaly over TCP
* **HTTP OPTIONS Method** - Show info regarding communication options&#x20;
* **HTTP TRACE Method** - Used by software developers to loop-back testing, often used for debugging the communication part of a web application
* **HTTP PATCH Method** - Modify resource, could be used to update just one column in a record

### Identity Federation

* Trusted identity provider (IdP)
  * LDAP directory service such as Microsoft Active Directory
  * On-premises or in the cloud
* Resource providers (RP)
  * Also called a service provider (SP)
  * Web apps that trust the IdP
* Claims
  * Assertions about a user or device
  * Examples:
    * User date of birth, e-mail address
    * Device type or subnet

### Single Sign-on (SSO)

* Automatic user sign-in to apps
* Convenient for users
* Compromised SSO account could provide access to multiple apps

### RADIUS Network Authentication

Before a user or a device is even allowed to communicate on a network they must be authenticated and trusted. It's to get on the network in the first place.

### Virtual Private Network (VPN)

* Remote access to a private network - allows remote access to a private network over a public untrusted network like the Internet by establishing an encrypted point-to-point tunnel between two points.
* Uses an encrypted network tunnel (encryption of data in transit)

## Test

How can directory traversal attacks be mitigated?

* Configure a web application firewall
* Validate user input

What is the purpose of an Azure managed identity?

* To grant permissions to Azure resources so they can access other resources

Which HTTP method can request the size of a file before it is downloaded?

* HEAD

Which identity federation item contains claims?

* Security token

You are settings NTFS file system permissions for an Active Directory user account. Which type of access control model is this?

* Discretionary

When combining Windows share and NTFS permissions, which permissions will prevail?

* The most restrictive

Which Windows dynamic access control configuration item defines conditions on resource properties, user attributes and permissions?

* Central access rule
