# 6. Vulnerable & Outdated components

### Software Dependencies

* Modules/libraries
* Plug-ins/add-ons
* Stability
* Security (no back doors, free from infections)
* Timely software update availability

### Buffer Overflows

Programming error - lack of checking memory allocation for variables

**Types:**

* **Stack** - it uses last-in first-out -> LIFO that means that the most recent data that's placed on the stack is the first that will leave the stack to make room for other data
* **Heap** - data that comes into or leaves the heap doesn't follow any kind of order
* **Integer** - we have an integer variable in memory - integers are whole numbers, but let's say we have a mathematical calculation that results in a number that is much too large to fit into an integer data type in memory that can cause problems server-side.
* **Unicode** - if you've got something in memory that expects to receive and store ASCII characters but instead unicode characters are supplied and you're not checking it carefully then that could result in a unicode overflow attack.

**Results:**

* Remote access to server memory contents
* Overwritten executable code can produce incorrect results
* Overwritten executable code can crash the server

### CI/CD (Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment)

* Rapid software development
* New features
* Enhancements
* Security fixes



* Rapid software deployment
* Automated testing
* Push notifications/deployments

#### CI/CD Pipeline Security

* Restrict developer station access (VPN, MFA, Jump box)
* Use HTTPS, never HTTP and encrypt data at rest
* Periodic review of build automation scripts

### Test

Which software development methodology provides flexibility in making code changes at any project phase?

* Agile

How are CVEs labelled?

* Year followed by a CVE number

Which port number is normally used for DNS client queries?

* 53

Which PowerShell cmdlet is used to view the effective settings for running PowerShell scripts on a host?

* Get-ExecutionPolicy

What was the core cause of the Heartbleed Bug?

* Lack of input validation in OpenSSL

Which SQL encryption option protects databases, backups, and logs?

* TDE
