linux/bash.md, before:

# Bash

Stabilize shell:

`python -c 'import pty;pty.spawn("/bin/bash/")'`

Spawn a process, and connect its controlling terminal with the current process’s standard io. This is often used to baffle programs which insist on reading from the controlling terminal.

|      Command      |             Full name             |            Purpose           |
| :---------------: | :-------------------------------: | :--------------------------: |
|       touch       |               touch               |          create file         |
|       mkdir       |           make directory          |        create a folder       |
|         cp        |                copy               |     copy a file or folder    |
|         mv        |                move               |     move a file or folder    |
|         rm        |               remove              |    remove a file or folder   |
|        file       |                file               | determine the type of a file |
|       man ls      |             manual ls             |           manual ls          |
|       ls -a       |     list files and directories    |        list all files        |
|     su -user2     |            switch user            |        switch to user2       |
|        PID        |   process identification number   |        PID process ID        |
|       ps aux      | snapshot of the current processes |       running processes      |
| Find . -name ‘\*’ |               find                |       shows all folders      |

**ctrl + shift + c** - copy text

**ctrl + shift + v** - past text

**ctrl + a** - jumps to the beginning of line

**ctrl + e** - jumps to the end of line

**ctrl + shift + "+"** - zoom in

**ctrl + "-"** - zoom out

**ctrl + u** - deletes everything before cursor

**ctrl + k** - deletes everything after cursor

**ctrl + y** - put it back

**alt + backspace** - delete lasr word

**ctrl + x + e** - put line into editor

**ctrl + r** - find command in history



systemctl => this command allows us to interact with the systemd process/daemon.

systemctl \[option] \[service] We can do four options with systemctl:

* Start
* Stop
* Enable
* Disable

How to stop process:

`ctrl+c`

`ctrl+z` - sleep

`jobs` - find what jobs are sleeping

`bg 1` - background process

`fg 1` - back to foreground&#x20;

`wc` - word count

Found what processes is running with `jobs` and `ps` and then:

`kill -2 21345`

`pkill -9 ping kill` all ping processes

`[[ 12 =~ [0-9]+$ ]] && echo yes` - test bash script in command line

`HISTSIZE 500` - set size of history



Save IP address:

`export IP=10.10.120.2`

then:

`$IP`



* cmd+d => split terminal into 2
* shif+cmd+d => undo split
* ctrl+z => background a process
* fg => bring the process back to focus screen
* sigterm => kill the process, but allow it to do some cleanup tasks beforehand
* sigkill => kill the process, doesn't do any cleanup tasks
* sigstop => stop/ susspend a process kill
* ping google.com
* traceroute google.com => map the path your request takes as it heads to the target machine
* whois google.com => info about google IP
* nc => telnet find which port is open
* pdfinfo exiftool
* **`curl -s google.com`**
* `curl -s http://10.10.10.10/whatever`
* `echo -n "neco==" | base64 -d`

`http -v GET https://949e28ad57a200b65ef6eeb47841e4d8.ctf.hacker101.com/s3cr3t-4dm1n/ X-Forwarded-For:8.8.8.8`

using redirection: `<command> < <file_name>`

There’s two types of output, `stdout` (standard out) for when a command is successful, and `stderr` (standard error) for when it’s not.

You can redirect `stderr` with `2>`

use `1>` to redirect `stdout`

`stdin` (standard in) is the third thing commands can use and is for getting input.&#x20;

&#x20;you can redirect `stdin` as well. Here's an example: `<command> < <filename_for_stdin>`

&#x20;Another way to set the `stdin` is by using the pipe (`|`). It will use the output from one command as input for another. Here's an example: `<command_1> | <command_2>`. This will take the `stdout` from `command_1` and use it as the `stdin` for `command_2`.&#x20;



Settings stuff:

Global:

/etc/profile

/etc/bashrc



Users:

\~/.bash\_profile

\~/.bashrc

\~/.bash\_logout

\~/.bash\_history



## Raspberry Pi

`cd LCD-show/`

`./LCD35B-show-v2`

change to HDMI

`cd LCD-show/`

`./LCD-hdmi`

### Start the SSH service with `systemctl`

> ```
> sudo systemctl enable ssh
> sudo systemctl start ssh
> ```

#### Wifi Router

`sudo apt install hostapd`

`sudo apt install dnsmasq`

`sudo DEBIAN_FRONTEND=noninteractive apt install -y netfilter-persistent iptables-persistent`

Setting AP (Access Point)

First remove it:

`sudo systemctl unmask hostapd.service`

Then enable it:

`sudo systemctl enable hostapd.service`

`sudo nano /etc/dhcpcd.conf`

```
interface wlan0
           static ip_address=10.20.1.1/24
           nohook wpa_supplicant
```

`sudo nano /etc/sysctl.d/router-ap.conf`

&#x20;    net.ipv4.ip\_forward=1

`sudo iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING -o eth0 -j MASQUERADE`

`sudo netfilter-persistent save`

`sudo mv /etc/dnsmasq.conf /etc/dnsmasq.conf.old`

`sudo touch /etc/dnsmasq.conf`

```
interface=wlan0
dhcp-range=10.20.1.5,10.20.1.100,255.255.255.0,72h
domain=wlan
address=/rt.wlan/10.20.1.1
```

`sudo touch /etc/hostapd/hostapd.conf`

`sudo nano /etc/hostapd/hostapd.conf`

```
country_code=CZ
interface=wlan0
ssid=RaspberryPiWiFi
hw_mode=a
channel=36
macaddr_acl=0
auth_algs=1
ignore_broadcast_ssid=0
wpa=2
wpa_passphrase=RaspberryPassword
wpa_key_mgmt=WPA-PSK
wpa_pairwise=TKIP
rsn_pairwise=CCMP
```

`sudo reboot`

#### Try it different

#### 1. Install and update Raspbian

`sudo apt-get update`

`sudo apt-get upgrade`

#### 2. Install hostapd and dnsmasq

`sudo apt-get install hostapd`

`sudo apt-get install dnsmasq`

`sudo systemctl stop hostapd`

`sudo systemctl stop dnsmasq`

#### 3. Configure a static IP for the wlan0 interface

`sudo nano /etc/dhcpcd.conf`

Write in:

```
interface wlan0
static ip_address=192.168.1.2/24
denyinterfaces eth0
denyinterfaces wlan0
```

#### 4. Configure the DHCP server (dnsmasq)

`sudo mv /etc/dnsmasq.conf /etc/dnsmasq.conf.orig`

`sudo nano /etc/dnsmasq.conf`

Write in:

```
interface=wlan0
dhcp-range=192.168.0.11,192.168.0.30,255.255.255.0,72h
```

#### 5. Configure the access point host software (hostapd)

`sudo nano /etc/hostapd/hostapd.conf`

```
interface=wlan0
bridge=br0
hw_mode=g
channel=7
wmm_enabled=0
macaddr_acl=0
auth_algs=1
ignore_broadcast_ssid=0
wpa=2
wpa_key_mgmt=WPA-PSK
wpa_pairwise=TKIP
rsn_pairwise=CCMP
ssid=RaspberryWifi
wpa_passphrase=RPIPassword
```

`sudo nano /etc/default/hostapd`

Track this line:

`DAEMON_CONF="/etc/hostapd/hostapd.conf"`

#### 6. Set up traffic forwarding

`sudo nano /etc/sysctl.conf`

Track this line:

`net.ipv4.ip_forward=1`

#### 7. Add a new iptables rule

`sudo iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING -o eth0 -j MASQUERADE`

`sudo sh -c "iptables-save > /etc/iptables.ipv4.nat"`

`iptables-restore < /etc/iptables.ipv4.nat`

#### 8. Enable internet connection

`sudo apt-get install bridge-utils`

`sudo brctl addbr br0`

`sudo brctl addif br0 eth0`

`sudo nano /etc/network/interfaces`

Add following lines at the end of the file:

```
auto br0
iface br0 inet manual
bridge_ports eth0 wlan0
```

#### Reboot

`sudo reboot`

Commit message:

GITBOOK-158: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

linux/bash.md, after:

# Bash

Stabilize shell:

`python -c 'import pty;pty.spawn("/bin/bash/")'`

Spawn a process, and connect its controlling terminal with the current process’s standard io. This is often used to baffle programs which insist on reading from the controlling terminal.

|      Command      |             Full name             |            Purpose           |
| :---------------: | :-------------------------------: | :--------------------------: |
|       touch       |               touch               |          create file         |
|       mkdir       |           make directory          |        create a folder       |
|         cp        |                copy               |     copy a file or folder    |
|         mv        |                move               |     move a file or folder    |
|         rm        |               remove              |    remove a file or folder   |
|        file       |                file               | determine the type of a file |
|       man ls      |             manual ls             |           manual ls          |
|       ls -a       |     list files and directories    |        list all files        |
|     su -user2     |            switch user            |        switch to user2       |
|        PID        |   process identification number   |        PID process ID        |
|       ps aux      | snapshot of the current processes |       running processes      |
| Find . -name ‘\*’ |               find                |       shows all folders      |

**ctrl + shift + c** - copy text

**ctrl + shift + v** - past text

**ctrl + a** - jumps to the beginning of line

**ctrl + e** - jumps to the end of line

**ctrl + shift + "+"** - zoom in

**ctrl + "-"** - zoom out

**ctrl + u** - deletes everything before cursor

**ctrl + k** - deletes everything after cursor

**ctrl + y** - put it back

**alt + backspace** - delete lasr word

**ctrl + x + e** - put line into editor

**ctrl + r** - find command in history



systemctl => this command allows us to interact with the systemd process/daemon.

systemctl \[option] \[service] We can do four options with systemctl:

* Start
* Stop
* Enable
* Disable

How to stop process:

`ctrl+c`

`ctrl+z` - sleep

`jobs` - find what jobs are sleeping

`bg 1` - background process

`fg 1` - back to foreground&#x20;

`wc` - word count

Found what processes is running with `jobs` and `ps` and then:

`kill -2 21345`

`pkill -9 ping kill` all ping processes

`[[ 12 =~ [0-9]+$ ]] && echo yes` - test bash script in command line

`HISTSIZE 500` - set size of history



Save IP address:

`export IP=10.10.120.2`

then:

`$IP`



* cmd+d => split terminal into 2
* shif+cmd+d => undo split
* ctrl+z => background a process
* fg => bring the process back to focus screen
* sigterm => kill the process, but allow it to do some cleanup tasks beforehand
* sigkill => kill the process, doesn't do any cleanup tasks
* sigstop => stop/ susspend a process kill
* ping google.com
* traceroute google.com => map the path your request takes as it heads to the target machine
* whois google.com => info about google IP
* nc => telnet find which port is open
* pdfinfo exiftool
* **`curl -s google.com`**
* `curl -s http://10.10.10.10/whatever`
* `echo -n "neco==" | base64 -d`

`http -v GET https://949e28ad57a200b65ef6eeb47841e4d8.ctf.hacker101.com/s3cr3t-4dm1n/ X-Forwarded-For:8.8.8.8`

using redirection: `<command> < <file_name>`

There’s two types of output, `stdout` (standard out) for when a command is successful, and `stderr` (standard error) for when it’s not.

You can redirect `stderr` with `2>`

use `1>` to redirect `stdout`

`stdin` (standard in) is the third thing commands can use and is for getting input.&#x20;

&#x20;you can redirect `stdin` as well. Here's an example: `<command> < <filename_for_stdin>`

&#x20;Another way to set the `stdin` is by using the pipe (`|`). It will use the output from one command as input for another. Here's an example: `<command_1> | <command_2>`. This will take the `stdout` from `command_1` and use it as the `stdin` for `command_2`.&#x20;



Settings stuff:

Global:

/etc/profile

/etc/bashrc



Users:

\~/.bash\_profile

\~/.bashrc

\~/.bash\_logout

\~/.bash\_history



## Raspberry Pi

`cd LCD-show/`

`./LCD35B-show-v2`

change to HDMI

`cd LCD-show/`

`./LCD-hdmi`

### Start the SSH service with `systemctl`

> ```
> sudo systemctl enable ssh
> sudo systemctl start ssh
> ```

#### Wifi Router

`sudo apt install hostapd`

`sudo apt install dnsmasq`

`sudo DEBIAN_FRONTEND=noninteractive apt install -y netfilter-persistent iptables-persistent`

Setting AP (Access Point)

First remove it:

`sudo systemctl unmask hostapd.service`

Then enable it:

`sudo systemctl enable hostapd.service`

Need to delete to get back with wifi connection:

`sudo nano /etc/dhcpcd.conf`

```
interface wlan0
           static ip_address=10.20.1.1/24
           nohook wpa_supplicant
```

`sudo nano /etc/sysctl.d/router-ap.conf`

&#x20;    net.ipv4.ip\_forward=1

`sudo iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING -o eth0 -j MASQUERADE`

`sudo netfilter-persistent save`

`sudo mv /etc/dnsmasq.conf /etc/dnsmasq.conf.old`

`sudo touch /etc/dnsmasq.conf`

```
interface=wlan0
dhcp-range=10.20.1.5,10.20.1.100,255.255.255.0,72h
domain=wlan
address=/rt.wlan/10.20.1.1
```

`sudo touch /etc/hostapd/hostapd.conf`

`sudo nano /etc/hostapd/hostapd.conf`

```
country_code=CZ
interface=wlan0
ssid=RaspberryPiWiFi
hw_mode=a
channel=36
macaddr_acl=0
auth_algs=1
ignore_broadcast_ssid=0
wpa=2
wpa_passphrase=RaspberryPassword
wpa_key_mgmt=WPA-PSK
wpa_pairwise=TKIP
rsn_pairwise=CCMP
```

`sudo reboot`

#### Try it different

#### 1. Install and update Raspbian

`sudo apt-get update`

`sudo apt-get upgrade`

#### 2. Install hostapd and dnsmasq

`sudo apt-get install hostapd`

`sudo apt-get install dnsmasq`

`sudo systemctl stop hostapd`

`sudo systemctl stop dnsmasq`

#### 3. Configure a static IP for the wlan0 interface

`sudo nano /etc/dhcpcd.conf`

Write in:

```
interface wlan0
static ip_address=192.168.1.2/24
denyinterfaces eth0
denyinterfaces wlan0
```

#### 4. Configure the DHCP server (dnsmasq)

`sudo mv /etc/dnsmasq.conf /etc/dnsmasq.conf.orig`

`sudo nano /etc/dnsmasq.conf`

Write in:

```
interface=wlan0
dhcp-range=192.168.0.11,192.168.0.30,255.255.255.0,72h
```

#### 5. Configure the access point host software (hostapd)

`sudo nano /etc/hostapd/hostapd.conf`

```
interface=wlan0
bridge=br0
hw_mode=g
channel=7
wmm_enabled=0
macaddr_acl=0
auth_algs=1
ignore_broadcast_ssid=0
wpa=2
wpa_key_mgmt=WPA-PSK
wpa_pairwise=TKIP
rsn_pairwise=CCMP
ssid=RaspberryWifi
wpa_passphrase=RPIPassword
```

`sudo nano /etc/default/hostapd`

Track this line:

`DAEMON_CONF="/etc/hostapd/hostapd.conf"`

#### 6. Set up traffic forwarding

`sudo nano /etc/sysctl.conf`

Track this line:

`net.ipv4.ip_forward=1`

#### 7. Add a new iptables rule

`sudo iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING -o eth0 -j MASQUERADE`

`sudo sh -c "iptables-save > /etc/iptables.ipv4.nat"`

`iptables-restore < /etc/iptables.ipv4.nat`

#### 8. Enable internet connection

`sudo apt-get install bridge-utils`

`sudo brctl addbr br0`

`sudo brctl addif br0 eth0`

`sudo nano /etc/network/interfaces`

Add following lines at the end of the file:

```
auto br0
iface br0 inet manual
bridge_ports eth0 wlan0
```

#### Reboot

`sudo reboot`
